---
layout: post
title: "Presented virtual CHUtalk"
date: 2020-05-20
---

<p align="justify">
 I presented my PhD work in a virtual Churchill College MCR talk and it is now available  
 <a href="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sjOI20LPF5U">
  here 
 </a>
 on the MCR YouTube channel. The abstract is shown below. 
</p>

<p>
  <br/>
  <br/>
</p>

<p>

<strong>Monte Carlo simulations from aerosol synthesis to heterogeneous
catalysis</strong>
  <br/>
  <br/>
Stochastic (Monte Carlo) simulation is a powerful tool for studying
the dynamic evolution of complex physical systems. Monte Carlo
methods have been used to solve detailed population balance
equations describing formation and growth of multivariate particles
in flame, crystallisation, and granulation processes. This talk will
consider the example of industrial synthesis of pigmentary titania,
an important industrial chemical that is produced on the scale of
millions of tons per year and has properties strongly dependent on
its morphology. We have developed techniques for modelling
structured particles in the context of two-phase systems, where gas
chemistry is strongly coupled with particle formation, providing a
comprehensive framework for studying flame aerosol synthesis,
towards understanding and controlling the processes that determine
critical particle characteristics. This talk will provide an
overview of key features of this framework and present a model for
the industrial titania reactor. I will also demonstrate application
of kinetic Monte Carlo (kMC) simulations to study dynamics of gas
molecules on the surface of solid catalysts, further highlighting
that Monte Carlo is a cost-effective tool that allows us to describe
physical interactions at length scales between atomistic and
continuum modelling.

</p>
